---
layout: post
title: PEPSI
date: 2021-12-13T07:52:24.390Z
image: ../uploads/new-project-2.jpg
title_color: "#ffffff"
caption: ""
comments: false
---
Pepsi is an American soft drink whose iconic presence has been accompanying us for years during major events and worldwide holidays. Despite the logo being ingrained in our heads from a very young age, the brand had its own rough path until they chose to stick with the logo we all know today.

The history of Pepsi began in 1893, North Carolina. Caleb Bradham decided to call his brand "Pepsi" after the pepsin enzyme in order to promote the drink as a "healthy choice". 

The classic look of Pepsi, although noticeable in the early logos, is very different from the company's prototypes. However, despite changing imagery and fonts, the brand decided to stick with the originally chosen colours to this day. Pepsi was promoted as a drink promoting health and good digestion, which was emphasised by the company's slogan at the time: "Exhilarating, Invigorating, Aids Digestion”. 
The designers of Pepsi could not come to an agreement on how the font of the logo should look like. This is why the quickly evolving font of the brand became a part of Pepsi in its early days. 
At first, the creators of the design wanted to make the logo almost carnival-looking. There was very little spacing between the letters and they had uneven kerning. Over time, more and more spacing had been added to the logo to make it appear as a milder and much safer drink. However, what has never changed about Pepsi's logo is a wave added to its font. All the logotypes had an Italic font to express the feeling of energy and motion that were a part of the brand. Promoting the drink to the athletes was especially important at the time as the brand wanted to become a long-time partner of sports events as the best supplement for good metabolism. 

Since the 1950s, Pepsi has always struggled not to be confused with their rival, Coca-Cola. It was also the time when Pepsi decided to add the blue colour to their logo to diminish confusion between the brands and changed their slogan to “More bounce to the ounce” in order to appear more fun and energetic than their competitor.


The biggest change to the logo of Pepsi happened in 1998 when the brand turned to a 3D. The designers also added a serif font and made the blue colour dominant. The last drastic change took place in 2008 when Pepsi decided to simplify its design in order to be more appealing to young people. The font was minimalistic because of the trending "skinny" Pepsi, and the designers had to find the space for the new words in the fresh design.