---
layout: post
title: SHELL
date: 2021-12-13T10:21:13.865Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
In 1971 Raymond Loewy designed the emblem for Shell that we all can see on the company's petrol stations. The logo is very neat and clean, while the prominent lines make the brand appear confident and strong. The red outline also sends the message that the company should be respected among other petrol giants. Although not present in all logos, Shell sometimes adds a wordmark to its design. The red colour of writing in a bold sans-serif conveys simplicity, at the same time being elegant.

Yet, despite the current Shell logo's strong message, the first attempts at the brand's designs were not as successful. In the 1900s, the founders came up with an unimpressive sketch for a logo. The designers wanted to recreate a mussel shell, yet the final result was disappointing. Later designs did not increase the recognition of the brand between customers. A mollusk shell was replaced with a picture of a scallop shell. Even though the logo slightly improved, the black background of the design made it look very unappealing.  

The first step the company took to create today's well-known logo was making the shell symmetrical. Founders also gave the shell a "crown" look to stand their ground in the field of fuelling expensive cars at the same time conveying a sense of safety, trust and security. They wanted to portray their brand as a king among other petrol companies. 

The first time Shell added colour to their logo was in 1915. The yellow colour really helped the brand to stand out from its competition. The first gas station of Shell was based in California and this was also the reason why the designers chose to go with this particular colour. In the early 1910s California had a lot of Spanish immigrants and as yellow is a very important colour in Spain - Shell wanted to be as appealing as possible to their first customers. 

What prooves the marketing success of Shell is the fact that they were able to drop the wordmark. They were recognisable and popular enough. The company did not have to incorporate the brand's name anymore making the logo even more simplistic and modern. This marketing sensation can also be noticed among other popular brands such as McDonald's and Nike. This phenomenon proves that the image that is associated with the brand is as important as its name and it plays a vital role in creating a personal relationship with a customer.